>> Will Sentance: It is lovely to be
here for JavaScript, the hard parts,
Object-Oriented Programming.
We are gonna be here all day.
What more could you ask?
We'll be here all day for
some wonderful material.
There's me with people,
some looking excited,
some looking,
>> Will Sentance: Not so excited.
And there you go, doing stuff at Frontend
Masters, that I love doing so much.
As I said already, thank you so
much for having me back.
I run Codesmith.
Codesmith is in the category,
I guess, of coding boot camps.
Think of it more, though, as,
we sort of call it a residency to try and
delineate between coding boot camps.
We have a bunch of folk who come to
Codesmith who've done a coding boot camp.
I love coding boot camps,
they're wonderful.
Typically, Codesmith tries to take
folk who are a bit further along and
kind of accelerate them through
to middle-senior roles.
This is the wonderful team
that does it with me.
There's Phil, who heads up New York.
Snow, who heads up LA.
Samantha there, who is a lead engineer.
Wonderful team of people,
I'm very very lucky to work with.
I just want to say about Codesmith.
Started it three years ago,
grads work all these fantastic companies.
Actually in the last two weeks,
three Google offers,
which I was very proud of those folk.
First offer to Riot Games,
which is surprising.
Codesmith is based in Los Angeles and
New York City.
And there'd never been a grad who got
through the Riot Games interview process,
and now thrilled that Pauline, she will
now be a software engineer at Riot Games.
Very proud of her as well.
Yep, I mean, actually Codesmith
graduates salaries range from 95.
I've seen offers below 95,
maybe 80 sometimes, so there you go.
That's the pitch.
[LAUGH] All the way up to 190, good.
That is the pitch.
What we look for in Codesmith candidates,
I say this only because for
everybody here, this is what
makes a great software engineer.
It isn't maybe what you think
of as being collect and
accumulate technical knowledge.
That is not what makes
a great software engineer.
The wonderful thing about software
engineering people, the blessed thing
about software engineering is that the
knowledge is always evolving and changing.
The only measure an engineer
turns out to be how able,
how capable are you at taking
on that new knowledge?
How capable are you at hitting a block in
your understanding of something new and
then pushing through it?
That is what we call analytical problem
solving, the ability when you hit a block
as you try and do a new thing
that you haven't done before,
to come out the other side successfully.
That is it.
That's the number one
most important thing.
That makes for
a hard pedagogy, that means the pedagogy
it codes with has to essentially be,
not teach you tons of knowledge but
puts you through tons of blocks.
But we got to give you first principles,
and this is what I like to
do at Frontend Masters.
Give you the first principles
understanding your JavaScript
such that you autonomously can
push through those blocks.
Part of that, both to give you
clarity of your own mind, but also
to ensure you become an enabler of other
team members, technical communication.
If you liked diagramming, online audience,
if that was the thing you liked in
Hard Parts, prepare to be thrilled.
If you didn't like that aspect
of Hard Parts, prepare for
more diagramming, a lot.
Look, this beautiful white
board that we are gonna cover.
We're gonna cover with diagrams.
To me that is technical communication.
But I'm also gonna be calling on
everybody here, again, and again,
and again to verbalize the code as we go.
That turns out to be
the most effective way to A,
improve your technical communication.
And just be clear what alternative
communication is, the ability for
somebody else to implement your code,
your solution to a problem,
without ever seeing your code,
just from your ability to verbalize it.
That turns out to be
an extraordinary measure.
Traditionally, when you
add an engineer to a team,
they do not add full engineer
capacity to productivity.
In fact, sometimes they may
even slow the team down.
Because now you've got to get your
mental model of the code base and
make it epistemically
accessible to somebody else.
That can slow the team down.
>> Will Sentance: Are people
noting down that word?
I've recently learned that word.
That can slow the team down.
I'd like to try it out.
Please, do not look it up.
It almost certainly does not
mean what I think it means.
That can slow a team down, versus if you
are able to perfectly communicate your
understanding of the code
base to that other person.
Now you can become
enhancers of each other.
But also technical communication clears
up your own approach to problem solving.
It makes you have a cleaner
way of thinking about it.
So these two things, we look for them in
candidates for Codesmith, as it happens.
But of course,
they're the very things that companies
dream of in their engineers.
So all of you look to today, not just
as being developing under the hood,
understanding of an aspect of JavaScript.
But also, probably more importantly,
an opportunity to focus on
technical communication.
All right, even here,
supporting each other.
I don't know what to say, cuz I mean,
it's the Frontend Masters.
Frontend Masters is run by deep,
empathic people, and
I think we will all be
playing that out here.
That means, here, being that supporter
who's looking to see the growth of others.
You folk are gonna be pair programming.
We're gonna have some time
to pair program together.
That will all be about,
how can I grow the person to my left?